introduction and Project Explanation
====================================

Myself soundarya, a seasoned software professional with 6 years of total experience, out of which 5 years 
as a DevOps Engineer and 1 year as Testing Engineer.

I am well versed with various DevOps processes and expertise in areas such as CI/CD pipelines, 
infrastructure as code (IaC), containerization, and cloud technologies like AWS.

I've worked on various projects where implementing DevOps practices has significantly improved software quality, shortened release cycles, 
and enhanced collaboration between development and operations teams.

I have strong experience in Devops tools like 

Jenkins
Ansible
Docker
Kubernetes
Github
maven

and

AWS cloud services like EC2, EBS, S3 , IAM,Autoscaling, VPC, Route53.

and IAC tool like terraform.

coming to the current project, i am working for client samsung.

Samsung partners have various webservices and inhouse applications.

we deploy these inhouse applications on various environments like dev,stg,prod,prod-mirror  and these activities were handled by Devops and SRE teams. 
In this project, we have around 46 microservices being developed by Spring Boot and Python and web modules using nodejs.

As a Devops Team, i have onboarded the 25-26 microservices into our CICD pipelines with end to end integration of all tools 
where we had various suites like code,Security, build, docker, ansible and k8
deployment using helm chart.

The Jenkins shared library along with the Jenkinsfile design for each microservice was done by both in an individual contribution and as a team work.

Integrated all tools with the Jenkins and designed various automation scripts in shell
and python to check the various stages conditions in pipeline.

For infrastructure, we used terraform to create infrastructure as code in AWS cloud.

AWS VPC, Subnets, AZs, Route53, Load balancers, ASG along with launch
configuration were used.

The terraform state files were maintained by our team in the S3 bucket

Designed the terraform scripts from scratch for various AWS components

Collaborated with dev teams in order to gather requirements and based on which the
scripts were written

Github repo was used to place the scripts which was integrated with jenkins via
webhook

Automation of Github,SONAR,JENKINS,JIRA rest apis was done where I have
received appreciation from stake holders.

we also integrated with Sonarqube and checked with shell script for each module and each microservice
was on boarded to sonar for code analysis and code coverage.

Maintained the build servers of jenkins and build using maven where we had docker installed which
converted the Jar into image by writing Dockerfiles.

we use Docker for containerization and K8s for container orchestration.

we will store artifacts and docker images in jfrog artifactory and we did Jfrog rest api automation for cleanup of old binaries was done. 
Initially, we have nexus repository. we migrated to JFrog artifactory.

we use EKS service from AWS to create K8s clusters.

The entire architecture was deployed in AWS EKS and we create EKS cluster using terraform scripts.

As a part of provisioning, we first create VPC and then EKS cluster with node groups and we deploy all

backing services like pods,daemonsets,deployments. 

we create environment under namespace.

We used ansible for deployment of helm charts into k8s cluster.
 	
Design and deployment was done in kubernetes along with Jenkinsfile and Manifest file
placed in github

The Prometheus was installed on all the two clusters of our AWS EKS with the help of
helm charts

The DB for the prometheus we used was influx database where we inserted the Time
series data

The two clusters along with 10 nodes had the Prometheus exporters which continuously
extracted the data based on the pull mechanism.

The Grafana was installed on the system and integrated with the help of GQL to show
the data on the grafana dashboard like cluster and node along with pod monitoring

The helm charts management was done via the helm repo where each sub folder was
formed based on the Palo alto project repositories.

Troubleshooting the pod deployment along with RCA was performed

I'm enthusiastic about staying updated with the latest trends in DevOps and continuously learning new tools and techniques to improve software delivery pipelines. 
I believe in the power of automation, continuous improvement, and cross-functional teamwork to achieve faster time-to-market and deliver value to customers efficiently.

Day to day activities involves:

1. writing/modifying the Jenkinsfile for pipeline jobs for new and enhanced microservices.
2. writing Dockerfiles for building the images
3. writing terraform scripts for infrastructure creation and decommissioning
4. Troubleshooting kubernetes deployment related activities
5. Working on build failures and fixing and communicationg over slack channel
6. preparing manifest files for helm charts.
7. Writing Promql queries for creating Dashboards in grafana
8. Working on user story, Bugs and preparing hot fixes for critical production deployment
9. Teams meetings like daily standup, grooming sessions, KTs and biweekly meetings







