Workflow
we are 5to 6 people. we have a github respository that host the terraform code and tat code will have AWS resource logic
lets say we are using the terraform project to create EKS,VPC instead of storing the statefile in the 
github respository itself we will use S3 bucket as remote backend

if any person wants to update the EKS,VPC 3-tier artechitecture logic. they can simply clone the repository on there laptop. 
they can make the changes,they can verify the changes using terraform apply
with this they will raise a pull request back in the github respository
it will update in S3 logic
once they raise pull request sommeone will approve
then the new terraform will update with the source code. will the terraform file changes as will as the statefile is updated in the S3 bucket

devloper team XYZ created app.py

devops team will create terraform
in terraform project
they tell us to create VPC
public subnet
for that subnet we have to create route table destination for that route table is internet gateway
then we need to assocaite to the public subnet
we need to create EC2 instance 
and deploy this particular instance on to app.py
and expose this to the external world with security groups (8080)
with the URL test the application

provisioner->
we not used infrasture we also used to execute + implement some actions during the creation
at the time of creation of EC2 instance i have copied the file + i have execute the commands
we can use provision at the time of creation and also in the time of destruction

using terraform, we have created EC2 with all the required configuration with vpc,routetable etc but
we are not able install python if we dont use provisioner. 
we have create all the required configuration using ansible,shellscript to connect to the instances

remote exec provisioner-at the time of crating EC2 instance you can connect to that 
particular instance or resource-> we can execute any kind of commands(can be installing python,nodejs,java)
 
local exec provisioner
print anything on the console(particular Ec2 is created)
if terraforms has 10,000 file in the console, in the local exec we 
can ask terraform to copy all the output to a particular file.

day-6
 
what is public IAAS platforms
a cloud computing model that provides on-demand access to computing resources 
such as servers, storage, networking, and virtualization.

types of application deloyments - bluegreen, canary

Blue/green deployments provide releases with near zero-downtime and rollback
capabilities. The fundamental idea behind blue/green deployment is to shift traffic
between two identical environments that are running different versions of your
application. The blue environment represents the current application version serving
production traffic. In parallel, the green environment is staged running a different version
of your application. After the green environment is ready and tested, production traffic is
redirected from blue to green. If any problems are identified, you can roll back by
reverting traffic back to the blue environment.

Although blue/green deployment isn’t a new concept, you don’t commonly see it used in
traditional, on-premises hosted environments due to the cost and effort required to
provision additional resources. The advent of cloud computing dramatically changes
how easy and cost-effective it is to adopt the blue/green approach for deploying
software. 

users-> amazon route S3 DNS endpoint -> AWS region (app v1)(blue environment live)-> database
users-> amazon route S3 DNS endpoint -> AWS region (app v2)(green environment live)-> database

scenorio1:-migration detection wt if there are 100 such instances wt if they are so many resources already created
statefile is a key
using terraform understands wt resources it has to create,modify or delete no if there is no statefile here
because u just started with terraform,there is no statefile. how will terraform understands that there is already a resource.
we use terraform import command.but how does it actually works?

scenorio2: drift detection in terraform
terraform refresh we need to run as a cron job every one hour
if any changs is done in manual in resource
lambda function will go to the audit logs identify this is an unwanted change immediately sent out notification to the team members

branching strategy git 
------------------
primary goal is to ensure that the customer gets releases on time. customer gets new features on time.

every 2 months they are deliverying a new kubernetes version to us.

what is branch?
branch is nothing but its a separation.

we have building a simple calculator in git/ we want to introduce some breaking changes. calculator with Addition/subtraction/multiplication/division functionality. we want to add version2 in calcultor functionality. like some percentage,advance calculator capability.
in such cases, instead of making directly changes into the existing branch that is master or main branches
or v2 branch, feature-v2
start development on this new branch test this code. once we are confident like testing is good. we simply merge this changes to the exixting functionality and delete it

any new changes or adding new changes in your applicationis not effecting the existing functionality
for example:- uner is a application supporting cabs they want to add uber bikes this is already given to the customer

we create a release -> we build this release branch and we ship this release branch to customer
why we do in release branch why not from master
master is actively kept for active development
who actively kept on master 
from the release branch we ship the product to the customer

master ->happens latest code changes or not 
feature
release
they will ship the release to the custmoer
build and ship this release branch to customer
master is kept for active development. from the release branch we ship the product to the custmr

hotfix/bugfix branch
very short leaved projects whenever there is customer version is released_v3 and after 3 days some user reported there is a bug in a production.
what we usualy do we create immediately a new branch called a hotfix branch.
hotfix branch will try to address the changes that customer required it will be merge to all branches it will be merge to master and all the branches we are supporting.

from which branch do you usually perform releases
it will be a release branch
git- it is a command to check whther who made changes in the file
wt s a feature branch
feature branch is nothing but whenever we want to introduce some breaking changes
from existing functionality we create feature branch.

always updated branch is master/main

to create a git repository we use 
git init->.git folder

git log
------
it gives you list of commit

what is git workflow that you use in organisation
git add && git commit -m "" && git push


git init 
local to remote respository

git clone URL
repository gits downloaded the code using ssh or https option into local

we need to config with remotes

how to pull the code from github
git clone

git clone vs git fork
---------------------
forking git is a disturbted version control system.the git code is present in one place we can disturbut it that you can create multiple copyies or multiple replicas of
we can collaberate on that replica
3.4k that 13400 has created a copy of repository to that particular date 
fork is used to create a copy of repository where as clone is used for download of respository

		

we can go git log division from the main branch and we can go to another branch in the same branch
In git main
git log division

if you wants to do any changes from one branch to another branch
git cherry-pick commitID
git log main
git log division we can see the same commit

git is disturbuted vc system
central-> client and server arhitecture nad server is a remote respository has all the copies of your code. and only available in the server.
distributed->every dev has all copies of the code/all copies of the code like each every has cloned to remote respositoy

what are the git commands that you use to commit changes to your remote respository
git add
git commit 
git push

what is the difference b/n git fetch and git pull
git fetch-> lets assume that we are working on speciefic respository and cloned the respository to the local and after few days we realize that you want to see wt are the changes that are made to the remote respository by colege or any other devolopers
so we want to the changes we can use git fetch it will show the info of wt are the changes that are made but it doesnot merge the changes to your local respository.

git pull
it does the same as it will also get the changes to your local repository

diff git merge and git rebase
git merge- if we want to bring the code changes from from one branch to another branch 
we can either do git merge or git rebase 
how they are projecting the history

git rebase
revision history we should always go to rebase the linear code history

.git and .gitignore

git reset soft
 file a 
  fileb, file c
fileb->git reset soft fileb
file a -> tracked file->git status
fileb,filec-> git log --oneline

git reset mixed

  file a 
  fileb, file c
git reset mixed file a
git log --online
filea

fileb filea->it wont log
git status 
untracked file,tracked file

git reset hard filea 
 file a 
 fileb, file c

git log
filea commitID
fileb
filec 

git revert

touch sample.txt
cat sample.txt
line1
line2
line3

git revert
line1 line2 line3-> contents will be deleted 

git log --oneline
sample.txt commitId

git rebase
branch a branch b

branch a 				branch b
file3- 11.00am,file4- 3.00pm		file 1-10.00am , file2- 2.00pm

git rebase
git log --oneline

file4
file3
file2
file1

brANCH A
branch b

git merge
branch a 				branch b
file3- 11.00am,file4- 3.00pm		file 1-10.00am , file2- 2.00pm

git merge
git log --oneline

file1-10.00
file3 11.00
file2 2.00pm
file4-3.00pm

hooks 
if you want to do something if you want to perform an action before or after is called hook
pre-hook->action that are done before doing git commit
post-hook ->action that are done after doing git commit

webhook
webhook -> git to preform an action

git stash 
temparory saves changes that you made near working copy lets assume you are working on a code change and immediately there is a serious big and 
we want to move from this bug to another bug and we cannot commit this changes because they are not ready. we can stash this changes like temporarily saving them 
in your git and move to a different bug and you make those code changes and once you are satisfy with them you can push and we can do git stash pop. we can get those changes back

kubernetes
masternode->control plane
workernode->nodes

what is cassandra
Cassandra is defined as an open-source NoSQL data storage system that leverages a distributed architecture to enable high availability, scalability, and reliability, 
managed by the Apache non-profit organization

what is Neo4j
Neo4j is the world's leading open source Graph Database which is developed using Java technology. It is highly scalable and schema free (NoSQL).
Neo4j is a native graph database, which means that it implements a true graph model all the way down to the storage level.

what is solr?
Apache Solr (stands for Searching On Lucene w/ Replication) is a free, open-source search engine based on the Apache Lucene library. An Apache Lucene subproject, it has been available since 2004 and is one of the most popular search engines available today worldwide.

what is Hazel?
Hazelcast Platform is a unified real-time data platform that enables companies to act instantly on all data. It combines high-performance stream processing capabilities with a built-in fast data store to automate, streamline, and enhance business-critical processes and applications.

what is Zuul?

Zuul is a gateway service that provides dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency, security, and more.

Zuul is built to enable dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency, and security. 
It can also route the requests to multiple Amazon Auto Scaling Groups. 
For Example, /api/products are mapped to the product service and /api/user is mapped to the user service.

what is Eureka?
Eureka Server finds applications in various scenarios, including: Microservices Architecture: Eureka is a fundamental building block for microservices-based applications. Distributed Systems: It simplifies the management of service discovery in complex, distributed systems

Explain Netflix OSS Stack?

prometheus architecture explained
ELK architecture
K8s architecture


cronjob
-------
A CronJob creates Jobs on a repeating schedule.

CronJob is meant for performing regular scheduled actions such as backups, report generation, and so on.

post {

  always {
    echo "I'm always ran"
  }

  success {
    echo "All builds completed OK"
  }

  failure {
    echo "A job failed"

  }
}
